Cloud services must be accessible anytime and anywhere and not lose or corrupt
users' data (reliability), and scale as user base continues to grow
(scalability). Unfortunately, cloud-scale distributed systems behind the
services remain difficult to get right. Guaranteeing dependability has proven
to be challenging in these systems. In this proposal, We are tackling this
challenge. We try to unearth dependability bugs in cloud-scale distributed
systems, in the aspects of reliability and scalability

The first aspect that we focus is reliability. We find that one unsolved
reliability problem in cloud systems is distributed concurrency (DC) bugs. DC
bugs are caused by non-deterministic order of distributed events such as message
arrivals, faults, and reboots. Some interleavings of these events might not be
handled properly, and lead to catastrophic failures such as data loss, data
inconsistencies and downtimes. 

The last seven years have seen a rise of implementation-level distributed system
model checkers (dmck) for verifying the reliability of real distributed systems.
Existing dmcks however rarely exercise multiple faults due to the state-space
explosion problem, and thus do not address present reliability challenges of
cloud systems in dealing with complex faults. To scale dmck, we introduce
semantic-aware model checking (SAMC), a white-box principle that takes simple
semantic information of the target system and incorporates that knowledge into
state-space reduction policies.

For the second aspect, we focus on scalability. Scale surpasses the limit of a
single machine in meeting users' increasing demands of compute and storage.  On
the negative side, scale creates new development and deployment issues.
Developers must ensure that their algorithms and protocol designs to be
scalable. However, until real deployment takes place, unexpected bugs in the
actual implementations are unforeseen. We believe this new era of cloud-scale
distributed systems has given birth to a new type of bug: scalability bugs.
They are latent bugs that are scale-dependent; they only surface in large-scale
deployments only. Their presence jeopardizes systems reliability and
availability at scale.

We present \sck, a methodology that enables developers to scale-check
distributed systems and find scalability bugs on one machine. To colocate a
large number of nodes without sacrificing accuracy, we remove hardware
contentions with four novel strategies. And with these techniques, we achieve
high collocation factor.
