State of the art does not help.

In this chapter, we will discuss about leveraging semantic awareness for model
checking, and introduce ``semantic-aware model checking'' (SAMC), a white-box
model checking approach that takes semantic knowledge of how events (\eg,
messages, crashes, and reboots) are processed by the target system and
incorporates that information in reduction policies.  To show the intuition
behind SAMC, we first give an example of  a simple leader election protocol.
Then, we present SAMC architecture and our four reduction policies.

\section{Semantic Awareness}

In a simple leader election protocol, every node broadcasts its vote to reach a
quorum and elect a leader.  Each node begins by voting for itself (\eg, \ntwo\
broadcasts \ts{vote=2}).  Each node receives vote broadcasts from other peers
and processes every vote with this simplified code segment below.  As depicted
in the code segment below, if an incoming vote is less than the node's current
vote, it is simply discarded.  If it is larger, the node changes its vote and
broadcasts the new vote.

\begin{alltt}
if (msg.vote < myVote) \{
  discard;
\} else \{
  myVote = msg.vote; broadcast(myVote);
\}
\end{alltt}

Let's assume \nfour\ with \ts{vote=4} is receiving three concurrent messages
with votes \ts{1}, \ts{2}, and \ts{3} from its peers.  Here, a dmck with a
black-box DPOR approach must perform 6 (3!) orderings (\ts{123}, \ts{132}, and
so on).  This is because a black-box DPOR does {\em not} know the {\em message
processing semantic} (\ie, how messages will be processed by the receiving
node).  Thus, a black-box DPOR must treat all of them as dependent
(\sec\ref{mot-state}); they must be re-ordered for soundness.  However, by
knowing the processing logic above, a dmck can soundly conclude that all
orderings will lead to the same state; all messages will be discarded by \nfour\
and its local state will not change.  Thus, a semantic-aware dmck can reduce the
6 redundant executions to just 1 execution.

The example above shows a scalability limitation of a black-box dmck.
Fortunately, simple semantic knowledge has a great potential in removing
redundant executions.  Furthermore, semantic knowledge can be incorporated on
top of sound model checking foundations such as DPOR and symmetry, as we
describe next.
