\subsection{Pattern Extraction}
\label{sam-extract}


% summary
We have presented four general, simple, and powerful semantic-aware
reduction policies along with the generic event processing patterns.
With this, testers can write protocol-specific rules by extracting the
patterns from their target systems.  
%
Given the patterns described in previous sections, a tester must
perform what we call as ``extraction'' phase.  Here, the tester must
extract the patterns from the target system and write
protocol-specific rules specifically by filling in the predicates and
abstractions as defined in previous sections; in
Section~\ref{imp-targets}, we will show a real extraction result (\ie,
real rules).  Currently, the extraction phase is manual; we leave
automated approaches as a future work (\sec\ref{discuss}).
Nevertheless, we believe manual extraction is bearable for several
reasons.  First, today is the era of
DevOps~\cite{Limoncelli+11-Devops} where developers are testers and
vice versa; testers know the internals of their target systems.  This
is also largely true in cloud system development.  Second, the
processing patterns only cover high-level semantics; testers just fill
in the predicates and abstractions but no more details.  In fact,
simple semantics are enough to significantly help dmck go faster to
deeper states.




